# 07.11 - 13.11

## Work Done

## Notes/Remarks

## Challenges/Problems

- Kinect Studio not working (at first try) with multi-source frames
- Keep platform specific Network Byte Order in mind (message parsing)

## Literature

- Network Byte Order:
	- [stackoverflow explanation](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/21202111/network-byte-order-on-localhost)
	- [Windows conversion](http://beej.us/guide/bgnet/output/html/multipage/htonsman.html)



## Personal Notes

### Socket Programming

#### Binary Data
It is perfectly possible to send binary data over a socket. The major problem is that not all machines use the same formats for binary data. For example, a Motorola chip will represent a 16 bit integer with the value 1 as the two hex bytes 00 01. Intel and DEC, however, are byte-reversed - that same 1 is 01 00. Socket libraries have calls for converting 16 and 32 bit integers - ntohl, htonl, ntohs, htons where “n” means network and “h” means host, “s” means short and “l” means long. Where network order is host order, these do nothing, but where the machine is byte-reversed, these swap the bytes around appropriately.

In these days of 32 bit machines, the ascii representation of binary data is frequently smaller than the binary representation. That’s because a surprising amount of the time, all those longs have the value 0, or maybe 1. The string “0” would be two bytes, while binary is four. Of course, this doesn’t fit well with fixed-length messages. Decisions, decisions.

### Communication Model
- **Client Side**: 2 Threads:
	 - Detection/Data gathering
	 - CommunicationHandler: handles outgoing identification, training calls. Stacked blocking calls over TCP socket
- **Server Side**: 1 Thread: handle identification and training

### Camera Pose Reconstruction

#### Approach 1: Depth + Color

- Colorspace feature matching
- Map color features to depth space
- Calulate camera pose by minimizing reprojection error
**Implementation (GTSAM):**
- Cam1 (I, prior factor), Points: add as variables
- Cam2 (estimate)
- Add (2d|3d) point observations of second frame as generic projection factor (do NOT optimize for points)

#### Approach 2: ICP point cloud alignment
- Calculate relative transformation between frames by aligning the point clouds of the head